docs: add v0.1.0 release blog (#440)
TabbyML/tabby: website/blog/2023-09-13-release-0-1-0-metal/index.md

---
authors: [ meng ]
---
# Highlights of Tabby v0.1.0: Apple M1/M2 Support

> We are thrilled to announce the release of Tabby v0.1.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are thrilled to announce the release of Tabby v0.1.0👏🏻.
```

Thanks to [llama.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp), Apple M1/M2 Tabby users can now harness Metal inference support on Apple's M1 and M2 chips by using the `--device metal` flag.

> This enhancement results in significant improvements in inference speed, marking a significant milestone in Tabby's adoption on Apple devices. Check out our [Model Directory](/docs/models) to discover models that come with Metal support!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This enhancement leads to a significant inference speed upgrade🚀. It marks a meaningful milestone in Tabby's adoption on Apple devices. Check out our [Model Directory](/docs/models) to discover LLM models with Metal support! 🎁
```

<center>

![Inference](./inference.png)

*An example inference benchmarking with [CodeLlama-7B](https://huggingface.co/TabbyML/CodeLlama-7B) on Apple M2 Max, takes ~600ms.*

</center>

:::tip

> if you’d like to keep up to date on all the happenings with Tabby. Follow us on [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/company/tabbyml/), and join our [Slack community](https://join.slack.com/t/tabbycommunity/shared_invite/zt-1xeiddizp-bciR2RtFTaJ37RBxr8VxpA) to talk to our engineers and developer tools enthusiasts worldwide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out latest Tabby updates on [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/company/tabbyml/) and [Slack community](https://join.slack.com/t/tabbycommunity/shared_invite/zt-1xeiddizp-bciR2RtFTaJ37RBxr8VxpA)! Our Tabby community is eager for your participation. ❤️ 
```
